WEBVTT Kind: captions Language: en [MUSIC PLAYING] SAURABH MADAAN:
Hello, everyone.  I'm Saurabh Madaan, and welcome to another of our
special value investing talks.  We have a very, very special guest
today with us.  He is an investor par excellence.  He searches for
long-term compounders. But just speaking with himbefore this talk
began, I can also tell you that he has a great sense of humor.
So I hope we get to see that in action live, as he asks you
questions and you ask him questions.  So I'm going to do a very,
very brief introduction.  Charles T. Akre, also known as Chuck Akre
is an American investor, financier, and businessman.  He serves on
the board of directors of the Enstar Group.  He's also the founder,
chairman, and CIO of Akre Capital Management, FBR Focus, and other
funds.  Akre Capital Management is based in Middleburg, Virginia.
So without any further ado, over to Chuck Akre.  CHUCK AKRE: Thank
you, Saurabh.  Great.  So I just want to clarify one thing.  I've not
been associated with FBR Focus Fund since August of 2009.  And that
was a fund that I ran previously, and before we started our own fund
in September of 2009.  I just wrote down some notes, and the headline
in the notes said, The Peregrinations of an English Major in Search of
the Investment Puzzle.  And Saurabh said that he was interested and the
group would be interested in the whole way I got involved in this and
how it's evolved.  And I started out as what I call a know-nothing.
I was a pre-med student and then an English major.  And so I had
not had a single business course of any variety when I started as
a stockbroker in July of 1968.  So your quick math can tell you how
long I've been at this.  Awhile.  In Virginia, they say, since dirt.
And so I had, in effect, really, a clean canvas, as to where I should
go and what I should do.  And so, since I knew nothing, my goal was
to figure this out.  And the investment puzzle started out with what
makes a good investor and what makes a good investment?  And I read
voraciously and still do.  And in the early works that I read that were
very important to me were books like John Train's "The Money Masters."
It was the first written story about Warren Buffett, other than a
Forbes magazine article and that sort of stuff And actually, in that,
Buffett outlines the only place that I've ever seen it.  He gives the
characteristics of a great business and the characteristics of what
makes a great investor.  And that was a very important book to me.
I've read things like the "Intelligent Investor," Ben Graham wrote.
In 1972, I came across a book that was reviewed in "Barron's" called
"100 to 1 in the Stock Market," and it was written by a Boston
investment manager.  His name was Thomas Phelps.  SAURABH MADAAN:
Phelps.  CHUCK AKRE: And what was interesting to me was that it
really made me come around and focus on the idea of compound return.
He never actually explicitly talks about compound return, but he
identified roughly 350 businesses, public companies, that you could
have invested in, beginning in the mid-'30s, all the way up to '71,
and made 100 times your money.  And in fact, there were a couple
instances where you'd have made 100 times your money in just two or
three years.  A really quite extraordinary thing.  The difference in
all of those, of course, has to do with the rate at which you compound
your capital.  And so that helped me down that line.  And I also read,
then and still do, lots of business biography, because it informs me
about human behavior.  How people behave in their business life and
business world, and how that affects what they're able to do.  So as
I said at the beginning, the puzzle was, what makes a great investor,
and how do you identify this?  How do you identify a great investment,
if, for example, you have a private company?  You can't just say,
well, the price of the stock went up.  If it's private, there's
no public share price disclosure.  So you know, the simple way to
describe it is if the pile of money at the end of the year is bigger
than at the beginning of the year, you know it's been successful.
But if you had a business that had so much opportunity to grow that
you invested all the free cash, and so you didn't have a pile of money
at the end of the year, you invested it in initiatives to grow, you
have to go to your accountant, or your bookkeeper, or go to your CFO,
or whatever, and he says, well, this is what your value was at the end
of last year, and this is what your value is at the end of this year.
And that's how you know if a business is successful.  And it's a really
important idea, because it just brings you back to the simple issue
of rate of return.  And so, not only how much has it gone up, but on
an annualized basis, and then you have things you can compare it to.
So in that issue about investors, what makes a great investor, or
one of the things you ask yourself, do you take undue risks?  How do
you define the risks?  How do you tell?  Have you lost a significant
amount of money in an investment.  Why do you think you've done that?
All of these are important as we develop our skill as investors.
And as I said, I had the advantage of a clean canvas.  That is, I knew
nothing when I came into the business.  And I worked for a firm that,
when I joined it in July of 1968, was the most important financial
intermediary in Washington, DC.  It had financed Geico.  It had
financed Marriott.  It financed all the other companies that were
public in the Washington area.  And the world was changing rapidly,
as it related to the investment business and the brokerage business
in the late '60s and early '70s.  And this firm wasn't particularly
well-suited to deal with that, but they were financially very strong.
And it gave me an opportunity, as I say, to follow my own nose in
that business.  And that's how it all comes about.  So when we get
to the piece about, well, what makes a great investment, I go back
to the issue of rate of return.  Sometimes, a great investment might
be simply described as, well, it met my goal.  That doesn't tell
you anything.  Rate of return, we say in our firm, is the bottom
line of all investing, and that's a really important thing to think
about.  And so Saurabh and I were talking before this chat today about
businesses that compound at 8% or 9%.  And I said, you know, 8% or 9%,
when you compare it to a 1 and 1/2% interest rate on the 10-year is
pretty attractive.  And everything's relative, but I think rate of
return is hugely important.  And so then I went to discover what the
historical rates of return were in all different asset categories--
stocks, bonds, art, real estate, oil and gas, collectibles, fancy cars,
you name it.  And when I was looking at this over, maybe, 70 years now,
or a 100 years, or something like that, the data indicates that public
companies in the United States have compounded at roughly between 9%
and 10% a year.  And that's better than all other asset categories,
and it's unleveraged.  And so that causes me to ask another question,
and that other question is, well, why is that so?  Why isn't it 3%
or why isn't it 16%?  And I'm not terribly mathematically inclined,
and so I use the term that it correlates, but I don't do that with a
mathematical background.  I'm just saying I observe that that 9%, 10%,
not too precise, is it approximates what these companies are earning
on the shareholders' capital.  That is, we refer to it simply as ROE.
We look a little bit more in depth, we're talking about free cash flow
return, you know, subtracting maintenance, CAPEX, and that sort of
stuff on the owner's capital, the capital employed.  And so I go from
there to posit the following.  Our return in an asset will approximate
the ROE over a period of years, given constant valuation and given the
absence of any distributions.  So you all look up at me and you say,
well, you fool.  Everybody knows you don't have a constant valuation
in the stock market.  So we just work very hard to have an attractive
valuation at the start.  And you know, as it relates to compounding
your capital, your opportunity for a higher rate of compounding is
enhanced by a lower valuation at the start.  I mean, it's just real
simple.  And I have a little bit of an arithmetic proof of that,
if you're interested.  You take a $10 stock with a $5 book and $1
worth of earnings.  So it's 10 times earnings, it's 2 times book,
and it's at 20% ROE.  And you apply that to the company and see what
happens to the stock price.  So you add that dollar's worth to that 20%
ROE, you add that dollar to the $5, you have a $6 book.  Two times
book is 12.  You have a 10 times earnings.  By the way, it's $1.20
in earnings now, 10 times earnings is 12.  So the stock price moves
identically with the ROE in the business.  And on a constant valuation,
absent any distributions, that's sort of my very modest level of a
proof of this notion.  And it's a valuable notion that's served us
well for a long period of time.  So then my next question is, well,
how is it that we identify an investment which will likely lead us
to an above-average rate of return?  What are the characteristics,
and what kinds of businesses earn above average rates of return?
So we say very carefully that we like to fish in the pond of high
return businesses.  And so it makes it much easier for us to get our
focus upfront, as we start with the notion of, what kind of returns
on capital does that business earn?  And just do something a little
bit interactive here today.  If I asked Saurabh what is the typical
net margin of an American business today in percentage terms, what
would you say?  SAURABH MADAAN: 10% to 15% CHUCK AKRE: So you think
it's 10, maybe a little bit above that.  I'd suggest that most people
answer that it's probably in mid or upper single digits, all right?
And an investment that we own-- I'll come back around to later on--
is MasterCard and Visa.  And does anybody want to guess what the
net margins of MasterCard, Visa are?  AUDIENCE: 30, 40.  CHUCK AKRE:
There you go.  So they're in the mid-30s, you know?  And you could
cut that in half twice, and at worst, it would be an average business.
It's extraordinary.  And I actually was talking to some people about
this at the Munger meeting the other day, people who are well-schooled
in the market, and good investors, and they had no idea.  They just
didn't think of it that way.  But that happens to be the way we think
about it, because we have this little idea that are our returns will
be affected by the quality of the business and the rate at which it can
grow the economic value per share.  And so, by the way, and MasterCard,
I can come back to it, but it also then causes us to spend a lot of
time trying to figure out, well, why is that so?  What is it about
the essence of that business that allows them to earn returns that
caused them to have a big bullseye on their back, that everybody, all
other companies want a piece of a business that has returns that are
that high?  So in my office, for some really unknown reason, I had on
the desk an old fashioned milking stool.  And it had come to me through
my father, and it had come to him through a business partner of his.
And on the top of this platform, it stands about that high, and it
has three legs.  And the first two are in the front, and the third
one is in the middle, in the back, and they're splayed.  And a farmer
who was milking his cow would grab that back leg and sort of just
stick it up under his behind as he sat down to milk a cow.  This was
in the old days when they did it by hand.  And so I was looking at
that one day, and I thought, you know, that's actually a perfect
construct for our notion about what makes a valuable investment.
We call it the three-legged stool.  So if you looked at our material,
our material is resplendent with these three-legged stools.  And the
first leg of that-- and we just use this as a shorthand version, a
construct to help us think in very simple terms about, well, how do
you find these great investments?  So the first leg is this issue of
a high return business, an exceptional business.  MasterCard is an
exceptional business.  The average business earns, call it 8% after
tax on earnings, and MasterCard earns 34%.  That's exceptional.
I mean, even if the average were 10%, 10% would be exception.
But I mean, MasterCard's 34%.  My god, that's really incredible.
So the first leg of the stool that we talk about is the quality of
the business enterprise.  And we spend a lot of time going down this
road that we call, what's the essence of this business?  What is it
about the business that's causing this unbelievable rates of return
to occur?  The second leg of the stool, then, goes into the operations.
It has to do with the people who run the business.  And the shorthand
version of that is, we want them to have both skill and integrity.
But what we say is that they've got a demonstrated record of being
just killers at operating their business.  But in addition to that,
they treat us as partners even though they don't know us.  And it's a
really important idea, because the reverse of that is somebody I heard
describe the other day, is talking like Warren Buffett and acting like
Ronald Perlman.  And there are people out there, and you'll find them,
you'll run across them, who do whatever they can to make sure that
public shareholders don't get their fair share.  And we don't want
that.  We want, the same thing happens at the company level to happen
at the per-share level.  And these are wonderfully-skilled operators
as well.  So first leg is the quality of the business.  The second leg
is really the quality of the people who run the business.  And then
the third leg is the issue that really helps create the value, and
that's the reinvestment.  And there's a book out, pretty current now,
called "Dear Chairman," and it's about activists, and companies, and
trying to change the behavior of companies, typically, because of their
reinvestment histories.  And if a business has a great high return
on the owner's capital, we would love for them to be able to take
all the free cash they generate and put it back into that business to
continue to earn those high rates of return.  It's way more efficient
than paying us a dividend and all of those things, and that's what
creates the compounding effect.  And when I get around to compounding,
you know, I always use the example-- you all have seen it on the web--
about the penny.  And so I'm going to ask this engineer right here,
would you rather have, in this hand, $750,000, or a penny doubled
every day for 30 days.  So you want the penny, right?  I knew that.
So instead of $750,000, I'm going to make it $2 million in my right
hand, versus the penny, doubled every day for 30 days.  You still
want the penny?  So I figured that.  How about $2 million and one?
Well, I mean, this choice, it was $2 million before, you still took
the penny.  I'm saying, how about if I make it $2 million and one?
AUDIENCE: That's a lot money.  I'd pick the $2 million.  CHUCK AKRE:
Yeah, see?  Now, who knows, right off the top of the head, what that
figure is?  AUDIENCE: $10.8 million?  CHUCK AKRE: Yeah, it's $10.8
million.  It's $10,737,000 or something like that and some change.
And so the simple arithmetic is, it's 100% return for 30 periods,
you know?  And that's the power of compounding.  And so the really
great thing about compounding, I tell people is, if you have a stock
that's gone up 10 times, the next time it doubles, it's gone up 20,
and the next time it doubles, it's going up 40 times.  What?  You know
compound interest and compound return is just-- it's staggering.
Actually, I have a correspondence with Warren Buffett about this,
and he always has said, as it relates to compounding, either you
get it or you don't.  And I wrote him a letter and I said, that
was not my experience.  My experience was, I didn't get it until
I experienced it.  And that goes to this whole issue of investing.
I have never been able to learn from other people's mistakes, you know?
I have to make my own.  [LAUGHTER] And so this process is designed to
help me, and my colleagues, and partners have focus, as it relates
to how we're going to invest.  Contrary to that is everything you
see on the TV in the morning, on Squawk Box or all those things.
And they have a different business model.  And their business model
is mostly supported by financial institutions and other consumer
institutions who want your eyeballs.  And if it's a brokerage
firm that's sponsoring it, the definition of a broker is to create
transactions, right?  Your advertising people, they want to create
transactions, right?  And what's the best way to create a transaction
in the brokerage industry?  Create what I call false expectations.
And the false expectations are the notion that XYZ Company earns
$1.37 in the quarter.  And the first thing that happens when they
release their quarterly reports is, everybody comes out and says,
oh, they earned $1 38.  They beat by a penny.  You better buy it.
Or they earned $1.36.  They missed by a penny.  You better buy.  Well,
if you stop and think about it, unless you're very adept at trading
the market on a daily basis, it's a sure loser for you.  It's bad for
your economic health.  And as it relates to trading the market on a
daily basis, you know, there are very powerful computer algorithms
out there using all kinds of information not available to most of
us that are competing against you.  So I just make that observation.
We try very hard to be investors in the value of businesses, as opposed
to speculators in the price of shares.  So now do you remember what
a penny doubled every day for 30 years is?  [LAUGHS] [LAUGHTER]
Don't lose sight of that.  [LAUGHS] So we tell our clients and our
prospective clients that our goal is to compound their capital at an
above average rate, while incurring a below average level of risk.
So let's start with the back end of that.  What do we mean by a below
average level of risk?  Well, the businesses we own typically have the
following characteristics.  They have more growth.  They have higher
returns on capital.  They have stronger balance sheets, and frequently,
lower valuations than the market.  So on their face, they are less
risky.  It's just, it's observable.  It doesn't have anything to do
with volatility, because our belief is, volatility is a risk only in
the short run.  If you have an obligation in a year to buy a house or
to do something like that, you probably don't want to speculate with
that cash that you have set aside for that.  But if it's five years
or three years, you have the ability, put that money to work and have
it work for you.  So volatility is not in our lexicon, basically, in
terms of risk.  And we've already talked about what average is, and we
think average is roughly high single digits, maybe low double digits,
and it has to do with what the overall interest rate environment is.
And so there are lots of investors, Michael Steinhardt and people
like that, who retired with records of very high rates of returns.
But that was against the backdrop that, in January of 1981, the long
bond, the 30-year treasury yielded 15 and 3/8%, and prime rate was
21 and 1/2%.  So it was in a backdrop in which rates were much higher
than they are currently.  So returns in all businesses are lower these
days, and my guess is, average these days would probably be at the
low end of that sort of high single digits number.  And because it's
an average we're talking about, it does not mean that we will have a
return in any given year that's better than that.  It means, to us,
over a period of 5 years or 10 years, our returns are very likely to be
well above that number.  But I would say, observably, maybe a third of
the years in the last 25 we maybe have done less well in them than the
S&amp;P, which, we use that simply because it's available.  We don't
care what indices people want to compare us to.  That's their choice.
We spend no time thinking about that.  And so, I border on salesmanship
here a little bit, and you can edit this out, Saurabh, if you want.
But the record that we have accomplished for our clients, I'll give
you some numbers very quickly.  Our separately-managed accounts which
we've been doing for 27 years have compounded at 12.7%, versus the
S&amp;P at that period of time of 9.4%.  So you know it's 330 basis
points over the market, compounded annually for 27 years.  We have
a private investment partnership that's been around for 23 years.
And it's compounded it at 15 and 1/4%, net to the partners, versus 9.2%
for the S&amp;P during that specific period of time.  So 23 years,
600 basis points over the market.  We've run two mutual funds in our
life, the FBR Focus Fund and then subsequently, the Akre Focus Fund.
Those two records combined, the number is 13.2%, versus 7.7%, 550
over the S&amp;P for that period of time, 19 years.  And then,
simply the fund that we currently manage, the Akre Focus Fund,
which has been in existence a little over seven years, it's a 125
basis points over the market.  And the market has been 13 and 1/2%
in that seven-year period of time.  So I just say that, and I don't
print them for you, but I just say that to say this is the outcome
of using this thought process in our investments.  Saurabh has
asked that maybe we talk a couple of minutes about some examples.
And going way back into the '80s and early '90s, we invested in a
company called International Speedway Corporation.  And International
Speedway had the characteristics of, it was 12 times earnings.  It was
at 25%, 26% return on equity.  It had an owner-operator who owned 60%
of the stock, and it had a lot of growth in front of it, because it
was the dominant racetrack owner in NASCAR racing.  And they owned
International Speedway, and Darlington, and Talladega.  They went
on to build some more.  It's not a very attractive business, in my
mind, today for a bunch of reasons.  The man who ran it, Bill France,
passed away.  His daughter is taking it over.  She doesn't have the
same skill set that he had.  But during that period of time, we made
10 to 20 times our money on that business over more than 10 years.
Another company that was also in the entertainment-related business
was a company called Penn National Gaming.  I mean, there's a lot
of serendipity about the way these things come out.  A young man who
was working for me at the time, talking to another investor, said to
us, well, you ought to look at the 10-Q of this company called Penn
Gaming, and we did.  And Penn Gaming at the time, in Pennsylvania--
Saurabh was in Philadelphia there-- in Pennsylvania had five off-track
betting parlors in Pennsylvania, and they were limited by licenses in
the state.  There were only a total of 23 in the state.  So you had
a high barrier to entry because of a regulatory issue.  And what was
interesting in this 10-Q was, the fifth off-track betting location that
they built cost them $2 million to build it out.  And they had $1.6
million of operating income in the first 12 or 14 months.  I'm saying,
that's not a bad business, you know?  I took it upon myself to go meet
the CEO.  We talked about the importance of people.  He was a real
estate developer by background.  His father had control of this old
race track, Penn National Gaming, that had-- because in Pennsylvania,
they'd given the licenses for the off-track betting to the legalized
gambling arena, the racetrack, the horse racetrack business, and he
was ambitious.  And as a builder and developer, he borrowed a lot
of money in his lifetime.  And he told me that he had been able to
avoid ever having his wife sign-- co-sign a loan.  That's a really
important measure of risk understanding.  And so I got involved.
And it was after that, that he bought another racetrack in West
Virginia, and about an hour and a half from Washington and Baltimore,
and converted that into a casino that now has 5,000 slot machines.
And he went on become the largest non-Las Vegas and non-Atlantic City
casino operator in the country.  And it's another case where we made
10 to 20 times our money in our accounts.  Again, this was a situation
of high returns on capital, low valuation, major shareholder owner and
operator, and a low valuation.  It was a huge opportunity for growth,
going forward.  And then, in current times, we talked a little bit
about MasterCard.  Some things that are interesting about MasterCard,
we purchased originally in February of 2010.  And this is when the
Dodd-Frank discussions were going on in Congress after the financial
crisis, and more particularly, about the Durbin amendment, which had
to do with domestic debit transactions.  The long and short of it is,
we bought the stock at an average price of $22.20 in February of 2010.
Today, it's $109, something like that.  So we've made five times our
money in six years, seven, you know, something like that.  And the
reason was that here is a business that had fantastic returns, as
we've already talked about.  It had a low valuation.  The valuation in
February of 2010 was something like 13 or 14 times.  It was growing its
free cash flow per share at a rate much faster than that.  And we had
a good thing happen with it, that we'd been to meet the new CEO, Ajay
Banga, who's a Punjabi, and a really bright, interesting, lovely guy.
And so, you and I were talking earlier about the interaction of people.
And so we see him in a setting with other executives in his firm,
and he's first name basis, kidding with them.  They kid with him.
All of these things are important.  Just the things-- you know,
I talked about reading business biography, you get a feel for how
people behave, and how they deal with their colleagues, and so on.
And so we've made five times our money in six short years in an
extraordinary business.  Now, if you remember what I talked about,
the third leg, reinvestment, their returns are so high that they
can't possibly find another place to reinvest their money at that
rate and get that return.  So our compounding is diminished modestly
because of that.  So they buy in scads of stock, they pay a dividend,
they invest a lot in new technologies, all relating to what I call
the electronic exchange of value.  I mean, that's really the business
they're in, and we don't know what form factor it will take in years,
but they're well-positioned in all of the things that are going on
today.  Another company that is relatively new to us is Moody's, and
we bought our Moody's originally in January of 2012.  And we paid about
$39, a little less than $39 for it.  Today, it's $110.  And so we have
a case where we've made 2 and 1/2, 2 and 3/4 times our money.  Again,
the same idea, a great business.  After Dodd-Frank, the government
authorized another six or eight rating agencies to exist.  I'm sure
there's not a person in this room who can tell you the name of any
of them.  It's a market-driven thing.  It's not regulatory-driven.
And so any company that issues debt has to go out and get a rating
on it.  And there are really three rating agencies-- Moody's, S&amp;P,
and Fitch.  The market is divided, like, 40%, 40%, and 20%.  Fitch has
had 20% for nearly 100 years.  They just can't seem to grow it any
larger than that, and it's market-driven.  And if you sit on the board
of a company that's about to raise debt, and you go out and you don't
get a rating on your debt, and you have a bad effect in the market,
you have a liability.  So it's a fascinating business that, again,
market forces allow it to have very high returns on its capital.
Another company that we've been involved with for, gee, almost 10
years is a company called Enstar.  And I sat on their board for five
years because I wanted to try to understand how the business really
operated, and it's a complicated business.  They buy insurance which
is in runoff.  And that is, operating insurance companies periodically
decide, well, we don't want to be in homeowners anymore, or we don't
want to be in long haul trucking anymore, or whatever, and they run
that business off.  And they're required to keep assets to support
those liabilities by the regulators until that business is gone.
And executives in businesses like insurance who have aspirations in
their career would not like to be placed in the runoff.  It's sort of
the back room of the business.  And this group of people who started
this company are chartered accountants by training.  And they're
headquartered in South Africa, and Dublin, and Bermuda, and London.
And they travel all over the world all the time, in search of trying to
find these little pieces of business.  I've seen instances where they
worked on a piece of business for five or six years.  They're very
patient, very disciplined.  And when I got involved in this company
in 2007, it had had a record of compounding book value per share a
little bit north of 20%.  But it was also three times book.  And I
paid $102.90 for my first shares in 2007.  And today, it's worth
about $195.  So it's not been a very good investment.  And you know,
I mean, I've essentially doubled my money, but it's taken 10 years.
So that number, obviously, roughly around 7%, compounded.  But then
the valuation got more attractive periodically, and in 2009, I was
able to buy some stock at $56.  So my return there is nearly four
times and that sort of stuff.  And so, that goes back to this issue
I was talking about, your starting valuation.  And you know, when I
paid three times book for this company in '07 and it had a history of
compounding book at 20%, had it been able to continue to compound at
20%, I would have done much better.  But their rate of return has come
down, just like it has in all businesses, as we've had this secular
decline in interest rates for 36 years as a backdrop.  Everybody's
business returns are lower, nearly everybody.  And so those are sort
of five examples of businesses that we own or have owned, where we've
had these great returns as a result of using this process, using our
process, we call it the three-legged stool, of identifying businesses
that we think are likely to give us a return that's above average.
I'm getting near the end here.  You're getting anxious.  I know that.
So I'll give you a few quotes out of Einstein, because I find him
simply a great thinker.  You should make everything as simple as
possible, but no simpler.  You'll have to think about it a minute.
The difference between stupidity and genius is that genius has its
limits, you know?  [LAUGHTER] We cannot solve our problems with the
same thinking that we used to create them, huh?  The only source of
knowledge is experience.  Imagination is more important than knowledge.
I told Saurabh that's what it actually says on the front of my book.
And the true test of intelligence is not knowledge, but imagination.
So we put our own little quote on the end of that.  It's an old saw
which says that good judgment comes from experience, and experience
comes from bad judgment.  [CHUCKLES] So in conclusion, we work
in a town with one traffic light.  And I say it makes the decision
process so much simpler.  Einstein, make things as simple as possible.
We tell people when they get to the light, turn.  Sooner or later,
they'll get to us in town.  And what's really important is that,
in a campus like this, or in Central Park South in New York, or in
downtown San Francisco, or Los Angeles, we'd be surrounded by hundreds
of people who are very bright and very interesting.  And the reason
we're in a town with one traffic light, away from that, is that their
stuff would be intellectually appealing to us and it would distract
us from what it is we do well.  And that's a really important notion.
Warren talked about getting out of New York and going back to Omaha
when he was a young man.  It's the same idea.  And not that being
in your midst wouldn't be unbelievably fulfilling, or being in New
York, or something like that.  It's that It distracts us from what we
do well.  And so, that's a really important thing, is you're thinking
about being an investor is to create the situation for yourself, that
you have the ability to apply what it is that you've learned and found
valuable in investing, as opposed to listening what Squawk Box, or
your next door neighbor, or your suite mate says, something like that.
Make things as simple as possible, but no simpler.  Imagination is
more important than knowledge, you know?  So I say, simply use your
own observations.  It's very important.  Peter Lynch used to talk about
buying the things that you see happening.  In the shopping center,
there's a new store and they're getting a lot of traffic, or whatever.
Do you all know who Peter Lynch is?  I mean, he had a really unusual
talent.  He had 1,200 securities in the Fidelity Magellan Fund.
He ran it for eight or nine years, and had a phenomenal record and
so on.  But he had 1,200 securities.  I mean, imagine.  So I was in,
seeing him one day.  And what he would do-- we were talking about
this earlier-- is if he found an industry that he liked, he would buy
every company in that industry, put them in his portfolio.  And then
he'd eliminate them one at a time, as he kept honing in on who were
the best ones and so on.  It's not a talent that I have.  And then
I say, just because you have a big brain doesn't mean you could be
good at investing.  And that's an important thing, too.  And finally,
there is no correct answer.  There is no correct way.  This is just
the way it works for us.  I'm happy to have the opportunity to share
these few thoughts with you.  And I guess we'll have a few Q&amp;A.
SAURABH MADAAN: Yes, thank you so much.  CHUCK AKRE: Right, thank you.
Yeah.  SAURABH MADAAN: If you can take a seat, that'd be fantastic.
[APPLAUSE] I just have couple of quick questions for you.  And thank
you for showing us a glimpse of the sense of humor that I was talking
to you guys about.  Sort of just before the talk started, you and
I were talking about family.  CHUCK AKRE: Yes.  SAURABH MADAAN: And
you were talking about your kids.  And if I remember correctly, none
of them are doing what you did in your career.  CHUCK AKRE: Correct.
SAURABH MADAAN: And I mean, over the years of successful investing, by
the numbers that you've shared with us, I'm sure you've made a little
bit of money for yourself.  CHUCK AKRE: I'm not worried about my next
meal.  SAURABH MADAAN: Yeah, that's what I meant.  I was just curious,
what are your thoughts?  You said that you believe it is important to
let your kids have their own struggles in life.  So talk to us a little
bit about family, about raising kids, about giving money away, maybe.
CHUCK AKRE: So my wife and I spend a reasonable amount of time figuring
out how we can put the money to use in places that will be advantaged
by it, as it relates to the things that we're interested in, or land
conservation, health care issues, education, shelter, things of that
nature.  And so we pursue that significantly, as so many people do.
And then it creates an issue within the family, where we've developed
an asset base that we certainly never expected to have.  And we've
seen, particularly where we live and work, in Middleburg Virginia--
You know, Paul Mellon lived there, and Jackie Mars lives there, and
there's a lot of wealth in that area.  And we've had a chance to see
people who have been, well, as we would say, they're on scholarship,
or they're on full scholarship.  And we see some of those whose lives
are really up-ended because of the fact that they have a vast amount
of capital available to them.  They don't have to work, and they
don't.  And so, the phrase that my wife and I use is, we don't want
to deprive our children of the opportunity to struggle.  Struggle in
my own life has been very valuable.  I was telling Daniel yesterday,
there have been a number of times in my life, that if your glasses had
the right rose color in them, my assets would equal my liabilities.
But you had to have the right color rose glasses, you know?  And so
those experiences have been valuable to me as a human being, and as
an investor, and so on.  And so, that's one of the things that we
think about, and talk about, and work out.  SAURABH MADAAN: Thank you.
That was great.  You also mentioned that you are a voracious reader.
CHUCK AKRE: Yeah.  SAURABH MADAAN: So can you mention-- CHUCK AKRE:
And a slow reader, too.  SAURABH MADAAN: And they say that slow reading
is actually real reading, but-- [LAUGHS] So I was curious.  Name a
few books, if you can, that you think are maybe under-appreciated,
or a little bit under the radar, or people would learn things from
reading about them.  CHUCK AKRE: Well, you know, I mentioned that
pretty new book out called "Dear Chairman."  And actually, it's a
lesson in behavior of human beings.  It's a lesson in thinking about
making judgments about whether or not business executives use their
assets well, in terms of compounding their capital.  I mentioned the
book, "100 to 1 in the Market," that came out in '72.  I've talked
about that a lot, and so people are reasonably familiar with it.
But a few years ago, they'd never heard of it.  And the big idea in
that is the issue of compounding.  Even though he doesn't talk about
that explicitly, he lists all kinds of characteristics that you'd
find in businesses which might do this.  Obviously, low valuations,
small value to begin with, all of those kinds of things.  And maybe
I'll think of some others, but-- SAURABH MADAAN: Sure.  Chris Mayer,
I believe, has done sort of an updated work-- CHUCK AKRE: Right.
He did.  SAURABH MADAAN: --in the recent years on the same book.
CHUCK AKRE: Yep.  SAURABH MADAAN: But I was curious.  You have this
workbench in your portfolio-- CHUCK AKRE: Yeah.  Yep.  SAURABH MADAAN:
--the last 10%-- CHUCK AKRE: Yeah.  Yeah.  SAURABH MADAAN: --of so
many small positions.  And you mentioned this idea of 100-baggers.
CHUCK AKRE: Right.  SAURABH MADAAN: So I was just curious, what are
some 100-baggers that you see around that, you know-- CHUCK AKRE:
Well-- SAURABH MADAAN: --you can share with us?  CHUCK AKRE: I've
only had two in my life.  And I still own those two.  SAURABH MADAAN:
OK.  CHUCK AKRE: And that's Berkshire Hathaway and American Tower.
SAURABH MADAAN: Right.  CHUCK AKRE: And the fact of the matter is,
you only really need one.  And I mean, and that's a really important
issue as it relates to investing, is you really only need to have
one great success.  And that is, as it relates to whatever your goals
might be.  And so the quest is, for me, the search is trying to figure
out what the characteristics of those are.  So if you think about my
comments, and three-legged stool, and high return businesses, and so
on, our view is that, most of the time, you can buy these exceptional
businesses at reasonable valuations.  So in today's market, you can
buy American Tower, or you can buy Moody's, or you can buy MasterCard
at probably something like 19 times next year's free cash flow, 2018.
And that means an earnings yield of 5% or 5.1%.  If we're still at
a 1.5% interest rate environment, that's an attractive deal, you
know, that comparison.  If the business does, in fact, compound the
free cash flow, or book value, or whatever is appropriate for that
company, in the mid-teens and you pay in the upper teens for it,
we like to say, you'll get to heaven.  [LAUGHTER] And you'll do so
without much risk.  Periodically, the market gives us an opportunity
to buy one of these great businesses at a discount.  And then even
more rarely, it'll give us the opportunity to buy one of these at
a steal.  So Berkshire Hathaway, I started buying back in the late
'70s.  And in the late '70s, my initial purchases were at $105 a
share, and that's the stock today, you know, is at $250,000 a share.
So that works.  American Tower is, to me, a business that is situated
like Microsoft was.  Microsoft was at the intersection of the growth
of the personal computer.  They had the operating system.  If you
wanted a personal computer, you ended up basically going through
that tollbooth, the Microsoft.  And so it was a fabulously profitable
business.  The growth of the wireless communication business which, as
we know, started with 1G, and 2G, and 3G, and 4G, now they're talking
about 5G, each of those G's requires a denser network of towers,
more sophisticated antennas, and so on.  And the place they put those
are on the antennas, by and large, so that the tower business is in
that same-- is in a nearly identical kind of position that Microsoft
was.  And I'm not a technology guy, so I'm already over my head.
But that's a really important notion, in terms of the exceptional
nature of a business and the ability to grow it.  And their marginal
return at American Tower for an additional tenant above about 1.2,
their marginal return is in the high 90% range.  It's unbelievable.
So once they put that asset in place and they get above breakeven,
the marginal return is in the 90% range, north of 90%.  And what
American Tower has done is they now are in 15 countries.  And when we
started with them in 1999, they were in the United States, Mexico,
and Brazil.  Now they're in total of 15 countries, including United
States.  And all of the things that were telephony-related in the late
'90s were the hottest things since the 4th of July firecrackers.
And 2000 came, and all of those businesses fell off the cliff,
because they were levered.  Well, American Towers, levered 16 to 1.
I mean, it's unbelievable.  Their huge cash flow businesses and
so on.  And they had to de-lever that company, selling assets on a
distressed basis in a declining market.  And in the beginning of
2002, the stock was $5.  It had gotten as high as in the $60s in
'99.  Beginning of 2002, it was $5.  We bought a position at $5,
and we were really proud of it.  In September, it was $2.  AUDIENCE:
[SCOFFS] CHUCK AKRE: We got on the plane and went see the CEO in
Boston, Steve Dodge.  He was the founder.  And what the market was
focused on was, they had about $6 billion of debt, but they had
$200 million that came due in November of 2003, 15 months hence.
And it was payable in cash or shares at the option of the company.
They were desperately trying to raise cash.  They couldn't use their
bank lines to pay that off.  You can't use the bank to pay off somebody
else's capital.  And so, the lower the price went, the more dilution
an existing shareholder was going to have if they used shares instead
of cash.  And in October, the stock got to an inter-day low of $0.60.
We bought several million shares at about $0.80.  I still own mine.
We have many of our clients still own theirs.  That's the other example
of a north of 100-bagger.  What was interesting was that the business
itself was a terrific business masked by a bad balance sheet.  And you
had great people working hard to get it straightened out, to preserve
their own investment, their own foundations, and that sort of stuff.
And it was just, so I think to myself, well, did I make a mistake
by not really putting a lot of money to work?  I was very timid.
If I say we bought a few million shares at $0.80, that's not a lot
of money.  And so, if I'd been more confident, I would have put a
lot of money in there, and I'd be fighting with Warren Buffett for
the place on that list, you know?  [LAUGHTER] But you get the idea.
So the point is that, periodically, you get a chance to buy one of
these great businesses at a bargain, and even, in a rare opportunity,
at just a steal.  SAURABH MADAAN: Yes, Chuck.  I have one final
question for you.  There was a 2006 interview of yours that I was
mentioning to you-- CHUCK AKRE: Yeah.  SAURABH MADAAN: --before we
began the conversation.  And Penn National Gaming, I think, was one of
the stocks-- CHUCK AKRE: Yeah.  SAURABH MADAAN: --that was a big part
of your portfolio at that time, and so was this company called Markel.
So I remember the stock price from that interview because it was 4-4-4.
And today, it's roughly-- CHUCK AKRE: 9-9-9.  SAURABH MADAAN: Yeah.
It's slightly more than double.  But it's also been over 11 years.
CHUCK AKRE: Yes.  SAURABH MADAAN: So the reason I'm asking is, does
there come a point, even in the life of a good compounder, where the
valuations are becoming optimistic enough, and the future rates of
returns that you can see are low, where one should maybe rotate or
move from one position to another.  How do you think about selling,
in other words?  CHUCK AKRE: Well, one side of that.  I think the
most difficult thing to do in our business is to not sell if you're
a long-term investor.  And that is, the ones that are really great
have been hard for me to identify.  It's taken me a long time to
understand how good the ones are that are really good.  And almost
everybody has less time in the market than I do.  But for those who
have fewer years experience, you know, if you get a disappointing
quarter or you get something like that, temptation is often the sell.
And if you've got a really great one, that's probably a bad decision.
Doesn't mean you can't lighten up a little bit, and try to time it
and buy some more.  We don't do that very well.  So we try not to
fool around with.  In the case of Markel, like Enstar, they'd had a
record of 20 years of compounding book value per share.  In 2006,
that was, like, 20% a year.  And so like Enstar, which was three
times book when I bought it, Markel got to the point where it was
2 and 1/2 times book or something like that.  And the fact that
I've only doubled my money in 10 years, so 7% return, is a result
of that.  By paying a valuation, which, in hindsight, was too high,
because the rate at which they could compound book was less than I
had imagined it might be.  Part of that backdrop is this whole issue
of this 36-year secular decline in rates.  All businesses have done
less well over the last 5 or 10 years because of the decline in rates,
and Markel is an example.  And they've now, in my mind, fully adopted
the Berkshire model of creating a business inside the holding company
that's completely away from insurance.  They call it Markel Ventures.
Got $1.2 billion in revenue, as you said, about $130 million in EBITDA.
So it's roughly at 10 times EBITDA margin.  And that will give them
the flexibility of being able to put capital to work, other than
simply in a passive portfolio, rather in an insurance business when
rates aren't attractive to them.  And they're one of the very small
number of insurance companies that have the discipline of only putting
money to work when their expected return is a positive combined ratio.
SAURABH MADAAN: So talking of names-- I think we have about a minute
left-- you did mention Visa and MasterCard, and I think you own both.
You also mentioned Moody's, and it a duopoly with S&amp;P.  CHUCK AKRE:
Yeah.  Right.  SAURABH MADAAN: I was wondering, what are your thoughts
on S&amp;P as a business?  It has the same market shares, even outside
the US, the similar structures.  But, curious to hear what you think.
CHUCK AKRE: So in the last few weeks, Moody's announced that they'd
come to an agreement with, I don't know, a government agency, the DOJ
or somebody, in terms of paying a fine relating to their activity
around the crisis.  The amount of the fine was substantially lower
than Wall Street expected.  And S&amp;P paid a much larger fine more
than a year ago, because the SEC had the goods on them.  They had a
string of emails about people inside talking about how this stuff was
crazy, and they didn't exist at Moody's.  That is, if they existed,
the government never found them.  And so, there is a modest difference.
And when the-- SAURABH MADAAN: So they might have cultural differences.
CHUCK AKRE: Cultural difference.  And so, when John Neff, my partner,
joined the firm in November of 2009, one of the names that he suggested
that we invest in was Moody's.  And I said, oh, we'll never buy that.
I mean, their behavior during the financial crisis was atrocious.
He was a very patient guy.  And he said, well, I think you should
meet this Ray, the CEO, and the other people, and so on.  And over the
next couple of years, I had the chance to go and meet the executives
two or three times, and I made my own judgment about it.  And so, it
wasn't until 2012 that we actually bought Moody's shares.  But again,
it was not much different, price-wise, than it had been in 2009 or '10.
So that was an example.  And what I've concluded then, still believe,
was their behavior during that prior crisis was stupid, but it wasn't
wrong and it wasn't illegal.  And you know, I mean, that sort of stuff,
as the e-mails showed was the problem at S&amp;P, where people thought
what they were doing was just foolish.  There was no such evidence
of that at Moody's.  And so I think there's a cultural difference of
some-- so we haven't gone over there at S&amp;P.  We did it in Visa,
because we have concentration limits in the mutual fund.  We did it
with SBA and in the Towers space because we have concentration limits.
But we haven't done it with S&amp;P and Moody's.  SAURABH MADAAN:
OK.  Great.  CHUCK AKRE: Yeah.  SAURABH MADAAN: We are out of time.
But thank you so much, Chuck.  CHUCK AKRE: Thank you very much.
SAURABH MADAAN: This has been fantastic.  CHUCK AKRE: Yeah.  SAURABH
MADAAN: Thank you all for being a great audience.  CHUCK AKRE: Great.
Thank you all.  [APPLAUSE]
